docs/index.rst, before:

Overview
========

``PostCactus`` is a set of tools to post-process simulations performed with the
`Einstein Toolkit <https://einsteintoolkit.org/>`_.

The goal of this package is to enable you to pursue your scientific goals
without having to worry about computational details (e.g., handling simulation
restarts, reading HDF5 files, ...). ``PostCactus`` represent simulation data in
a high-level and intuitive way, and provides some commonly used routines in
numerical-relativity (e.g., computing the strain of gravitational waves).

Summary of Features
-------------------

For a full list of available features, see the :doc:`features page <features>`.

- Read and organize simulation data (:py:mod:`~.simdir`). Checkpoints and
  restarts are handled transparently.
- Work with scalar data as produced by ``CarpetASCII``
  (:py:mod:`~.cactus_scalars`).
- Analyze the multipolar decompositions output by ``Multipoles``
  (:py:mod:`~.cactus_multipoles`).
- Analyze gravitational waves extracted with the Newman-Penrose formalism
  (:py:mod:`~.cactus_waves`) computing, among the other things, strains,
  overlaps, energy lost.
- Work with the power spectral densities of known detectors
  (:py:mod:`~.sensitivity_curves`).
- Represent and manipulate time series (:py:mod:`~.timeseries`). Examples of
  functions available for time series: ``integrate``, ``derive``, ``resample``,
  ``to_FrequencySeries`` (Fourier transform).
- Represent and manipulate frequency series (:py:mod:`~.frequencyseries`), like
  Fourier transforms of time series. Inverse Fourier transform is available.
- Manipulate and analyze gravitational-waves (:py:mod:`~.gw_utils`,
  :py:mod:`~.gw_mismatch`). For example, compute energies, mismatches, or
  extrapolate waves to infinity.
- Work with 1D, 2D, and 3D grid functions (:py:mod:`~.grid_data`,
  :py:mod:`~.cactus_grid_functions`) as output by ``CarpetIOHDF5`` or
  ``CarpetIOASCII``.
- Work with horizon data from (:py:mod:`~.cactus_horizons`) as output by
  ``QuasiLocalMeasures`` and ``AHFinderDirect``.
- Handle unit conversion, in particular from geometrized to physical
  (:py:mod:`~.unitconv`).
- Visualize data with matplotlib (:py:mod:`~.visualize`).

Installation
------------

``PostCactus`` is available in TestPyPI. To install it with `pip`

.. code-block:: bash

   pip3 install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ postcactus

If they are not already available, ``pip`` will install all the necessary
dependencies.

The minimum version of Python required is 3.6.

If you intend to extend/develop ``PostCactus``, follow the instruction on
`GitHub <https://github.com/Sbozzolo/PostCactus>`_.

Usage
-----

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   simdir.rst
   series.rst
   cactus_scalars.rst
   cactus_multipoles.rst
   cactus_horizons.rst
   cactus_waves.rst
   gw_utils.rst
   gw_mismatch.rst
   grid_data.rst
   sensitivity_curves.rst
   unitconv.rst
   visualize.rst

Examples
--------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   examples/simdir.ipynb
   examples/timeseries.ipynb
   examples/grid_data.ipynb
   examples/cactus_grid_functions.ipynb
   examples/cactus_horizons.ipynb
   examples/gravitational_waves.ipynb

Reference material (classes, functions, ...)
---------------------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   features.rst
   simdir_ref.rst
   series_ref.rst
   timeseries_ref.rst
   frequencyseries_ref.rst
   cactus_grid_functions_ref.rst
   cactus_scalars_ref.rst
   cactus_multipoles_ref.rst
   cactus_waves_ref.rst
   cactus_horizons_ref.rst
   gw_utils_ref.rst
   gw_mismatch_ref.rst
   grid_data_ref.rst
   sensitivity_curves_ref.rst
   unitconv_ref.rst
   visualize_ref.rst

Credits
-------

The code was originally developed by Wolfgang Kastaun. This fork completely
rewrites the original code, adding emphasis on documentation, testing, and
extensibility. The icon in the logo was designed by `freepik.com
<https://freepik.com/>`_.

Commit message:

Add first implementation of argparse_helper

docs/index.rst, after:

Overview
========

``PostCactus`` is a set of tools to post-process simulations performed with the
`Einstein Toolkit <https://einsteintoolkit.org/>`_.

The goal of this package is to enable you to pursue your scientific goals
without having to worry about computational details (e.g., handling simulation
restarts, reading HDF5 files, ...). ``PostCactus`` represent simulation data in
a high-level and intuitive way, and provides some commonly used routines in
numerical-relativity (e.g., computing the strain of gravitational waves).

Summary of Features
-------------------

For a full list of available features, see the :doc:`features page <features>`.

- Read and organize simulation data (:py:mod:`~.simdir`). Checkpoints and
  restarts are handled transparently.
- Work with scalar data as produced by ``CarpetASCII``
  (:py:mod:`~.cactus_scalars`).
- Analyze the multipolar decompositions output by ``Multipoles``
  (:py:mod:`~.cactus_multipoles`).
- Analyze gravitational waves extracted with the Newman-Penrose formalism
  (:py:mod:`~.cactus_waves`) computing, among the other things, strains,
  overlaps, energy lost.
- Work with the power spectral densities of known detectors
  (:py:mod:`~.sensitivity_curves`).
- Represent and manipulate time series (:py:mod:`~.timeseries`). Examples of
  functions available for time series: ``integrate``, ``derive``, ``resample``,
  ``to_FrequencySeries`` (Fourier transform).
- Represent and manipulate frequency series (:py:mod:`~.frequencyseries`), like
  Fourier transforms of time series. Inverse Fourier transform is available.
- Manipulate and analyze gravitational-waves (:py:mod:`~.gw_utils`,
  :py:mod:`~.gw_mismatch`). For example, compute energies, mismatches, or
  extrapolate waves to infinity.
- Work with 1D, 2D, and 3D grid functions (:py:mod:`~.grid_data`,
  :py:mod:`~.cactus_grid_functions`) as output by ``CarpetIOHDF5`` or
  ``CarpetIOASCII``.
- Work with horizon data from (:py:mod:`~.cactus_horizons`) as output by
  ``QuasiLocalMeasures`` and ``AHFinderDirect``.
- Handle unit conversion, in particular from geometrized to physical
  (:py:mod:`~.unitconv`).
- [EXPERIMENTAL] Visualize data with matplotlib (:py:mod:`~.visualize`).
- [EXPERIMENTAL] Write command-line scripts (:py:mod:`~.argparse_helper`).

Installation
------------

``PostCactus`` is available in TestPyPI. To install it with `pip`

.. code-block:: bash

   pip3 install --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple/ postcactus

If they are not already available, ``pip`` will install all the necessary
dependencies.

The minimum version of Python required is 3.6.

If you intend to extend/develop ``PostCactus``, follow the instruction on
`GitHub <https://github.com/Sbozzolo/PostCactus>`_.

Usage
-----

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   simdir.rst
   series.rst
   cactus_scalars.rst
   cactus_multipoles.rst
   cactus_horizons.rst
   cactus_waves.rst
   gw_utils.rst
   gw_mismatch.rst
   grid_data.rst
   sensitivity_curves.rst
   unitconv.rst
   visualize.rst
   argparse_helper.rst

Examples
--------

You can additional examples in the folder ``example_bins``.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   examples/simdir.ipynb
   examples/timeseries.ipynb
   examples/grid_data.ipynb
   examples/cactus_grid_functions.ipynb
   examples/cactus_horizons.ipynb
   examples/gravitational_waves.ipynb

Reference material (classes, functions, ...)
---------------------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   features.rst
   simdir_ref.rst
   series_ref.rst
   timeseries_ref.rst
   frequencyseries_ref.rst
   cactus_grid_functions_ref.rst
   cactus_scalars_ref.rst
   cactus_multipoles_ref.rst
   cactus_waves_ref.rst
   cactus_horizons_ref.rst
   gw_utils_ref.rst
   gw_mismatch_ref.rst
   grid_data_ref.rst
   sensitivity_curves_ref.rst
   unitconv_ref.rst
   visualize_ref.rst
   argparse_helper_ref.rst

Credits
-------

The code was originally developed by Wolfgang Kastaun. This fork completely
rewrites the original code, adding emphasis on documentation, testing, and
extensibility. The icon in the logo was designed by `freepik.com
<https://freepik.com/>`_.
